hi there i'm rob mcdonald and i found a
pretty exciting product for those of you
that like to do scrapbooking it's called
corel painter essentials for and
essentially what allows you to do is to
take what you're currently doing with
your scrapbooks and add a different
creative flavor or element to it and I
just want to show you a couple of
examples of what I mean here I have the
first part of my little scrapbook here
that I put together and you'll notice
that the image that's actually in the
scrapbook has been painted so instead of
using just the traditional pictures that
you've been using where you just take
them and print them and put them in the
scrapbook what you're able to do now is
to take some of your pictures and
actually have them hand painted like you
see here versus just a photograph so you
can mix them together and what it does
it just adds a different creative
element to what you're currently doing
so imagine taking some of your favorite
photos of your family and painting them
it's just a really really unique way to
to really add a different element a
different flavor to what you're
currently doing with your scrapbooks so
what I want to do is kind of take you in
and show you how the program actually
works so then you can then take that
painting or picture or whatever it might
be and put it into your scrapbook so
let's go in and have a look where we're
going to go first is we're going to go
into the photo painting auction here and
what that does is it sets me up to go in
and select a picture so we're going to
select mom and dad and little one this
is a picture of a wife and I and our
eight week old baby and what I want to
do is take that picture and then
obviously paint that and put it into a
scrapbook so I currently have the
painting set to do an impressionist
painting so let's do that and and see
what that looks like once once it's all
done so we've selected the painting
style let's just click the start because
the program will take care of all of the
settings of the the painting itself
let's click play and what's happening
here is the program is actually going
through and painting for us so you'll
notice that the brush strokes or the
dabs look much bigger you'll notice
it'll pause and then the brush strokes
will actually get smaller and as it does
that the detail actually starts to come
out in your image it is done now so
let's go ahead and use one of the very
unique tools that's in painter
essentials and that's called the soft
edge cloning brush what this does is it
allows us to go through and bring back
the detail that we you know want to add
focus to in the picture itself so I want
to bring back you know my wife and here
i am here let's bring back a little bit
of me and of course we have our child at
the bottom here his name is Sam and
we're going to bring back some a little
sanding here as well he's little white
pomeranian he's pretty cute and you know
once we're all done here we can then
take this and print it as a painted
image before we actually put it in our
scrapbook so I want to show you another
painting style instead of use maybe the
impression it is not your style let's
say you want to try something different
let's just do a select all here will
delete all those and we'll come back and
we'll do an oil painting this time and
again this is kind of cool with with
painter essentials is that it enables us
to go in and if we don't like a painting
saw we don't like the way the painting
turned out well you know what we'll just
remove it and we'll do it with another
style and because it's doing the
painting for you you no harm no foul so
let's go ahead and look at the oil
painting and again it does settings up
for us and you'll also notice that this
time on the on the source image up top
here we actually have a vignette around
the outside of the image as well which
means we kind of have its kind of has a
jagged edge on it so let's go ahead we
already have all the settings set up
let's click the start button again and
now we're going to get an oil painting
and again you can see the brushstrokes
and how they're applied the thickness of
the paint but notice again that the
brushstrokes are quite thing to start
with and then the brush stroke will
reduce in size to give you a very
realistic anything once it's all done so
again we are completed so we're going to
go back and use the soft edge cloning
brush once again and what we're going to
do is going to bring back the detail or
the focal point if you will of the image
itself so let's go ahead i'm going to
bring back mom and dad here proud
parents come down along the sides here
and spring back just a little more of
the detail and voila we have a painted
image so remember when you're doing your
scrapbooks you want to paint it before
you print it and once you print it
you're ready to go to put it in your
scrapbook if you want to find out more
information on corel painter essentials
to coral calm and all the information
you need is there
you